Notes for Modern Python Logging

video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9L77QExPmI0

"Useful logging is multi-destination"

Tip:
Don't manually create and add log handlers, use dictConfig().


Loggers are accessed and created by name.
If  you split the name by dots you end up with a tree of loggers.
So the A.X logger is a child of the A  logger, which is a child of the root.
By default, once a child is done handling a log record, it passes that record up to its parent.
Once again, if a record is dropped by a handler it will continue moving on, to include propagating up to the parent.
But if it's dropped by a logger, then it stops and doesn't propagate.

Modern Tip #2:
Don't use non-root handlers, put all handlers on the root logger.

This is simpler, but also having all handlers on the root logger ensures that any messages generated 
by third-party libraries get logged and formatted the same way as messages generated by your own application.

Also don't use the non-root filters. Put them all on the root logger or their handlers.
Leave propagation turned on so that all messages propagate up to the root logger.

Modern Tip #3:
Don't use the root logger in your code. Use your own logger with logging.getLogger()

Modern Tip #4:
One Logger per Major-Subcomponent. (don't getLogger(__name__) in every file)

Modern Tip #5:
Store config in a separate json or yaml file.

Modern Tip #6:
Use ISO-8601 timestamps (with timezone).

Modern Tip #7:
Store persistent logs in json format.

Modern Tip #8:
Add context with logging.info(..., extra={...})

Modern Tip #9:
Log off the main thread

Modern Tip #10:
For libraries don't configure logging.